Now the question is what is a promise?
The categories, of course, asynchronous JavaScript and there will be five related questions as discussed
in the previous section.
Callback functions are used when there is an asynchronous process, but when there are multilevel functions,
it's a hell of a job.
And that's why it's callback hell, our pyramid of Doom, which we saw in the previous section.
And to save you from this hell, the promise object is invented.
So in a very simple language, promise object is a better way to write those callback processes.
And the best way to know this is by converting or rather refactoring the code we wrote in a callback
function with a promise.
But before we do that, let's get clear with the very basic syntax of the object promise.
I'm opening the browser here and we try a few lines to understand the syntax.
How do we write a promise?
When I say promise, that is capital B, it's an object given by JavaScript.
And we instantiate the promise by saying that I want to create a new promise.
Also, I'm going to create an object, let's say name it PR.
So I'll say like PR is equal to new promise.
The constructor of Promise takes one callback function, which has two parameters.
Let me first of all type the code without understanding anything.
We just try to display the value of PR.
PR is an instance of promise.
The function which we give as a callback function in the constructor of Promise has two parameters.
The first parameter refers to the results state and the second is the reject state.
I'm coming to that.
What is result and reject?
But at the moment let me just run and see what is the output of PR.
As you see that the object is displayed and that is a state displayed seeing pending.
Let me expand and see what does it display?
It displays that it's an object of type promise.
The promise status is pending.
This shows that by default, when you create a promise that is always a pending state or pending status.
Ideally, when you think of a promise, it looks something like this.
The promise object which you create will have by default, a pending status.
So when there is a code inside a promise which let's say has done the job successfully, then you will
return the results state.
And if it is fail, if the job is fail or there is a failure, then you can return it with reject.
So in case if it is resolved or reject, there will be a further process you want to execute, which
you can write with then.
DSG And then sometimes we do call that promises are --.
So when you say that enable, it means you can write a chain of then statement and you can deal with
various steps of a process which is taking time.
What I mean to say is you will be dealing with multiple asynchronous processes with multiple thens,
which you see in this figure.
You see here right now, the status is pending.
Now, let me just say that I resolved the returned value.
I just see that after some job which we will add at the moment, we will add a few lines here.
For example, there are statements.
Right.
And then eventually when the job is done successfully, we will say resolve.
Let's run this and see what happens.
Now the state is resolved.
It is not pending anymore.
Even if I expand this, you see, it says that the promise status is resolved.
Don't worry about this pending resolved and reject the moment we convert the callback function code
with promises.
You will get the clear idea how it is done.
But at the moment resolve is actually resolving the status.
Now here it is undefined.
In fact, this is actually the message which you want to pass.
Like in our case, we can have data as well that we will see in a moment.
But right now, let me just give a message that it is successful or may be data processed.
That's it.
And now if I run this, let me clear this again and run it so that we get the clear idea.
Now you see that that is a state result and it says that data processed.
So if I expand here, you see that the state is resolved and the promised value which we actually returned
with a result that is retrieved here.
Right now I'm not giving any then statement.
Right.
We are just trying to see how we create the object of promise and what is the behavior of a promise.
Now, instead of resolve, you can certainly say.
Reject.
If you do that in case of failure, you may have a reject statement as you see that now because it is
reject.
Right.
That is an error also generated.
And we have the state as rejected.
We do handle areas also with promises that also we are going to see in just a few moments.
So this is the basic syntax of dealing with the promise.
In short, when there is a success.
You're done resolve and you return failure.
You actually use the reject, which actually updates the state as resolved or rejected.
Now let's see the syntax of promises in detail as well.
Let's try to create an object with a promise.
So I'll say let PR is equal to new promise.
This has a callback function which we have already seen, where we further have two more functions resolve
and reject.
Mind you that this result and reject.
Nowadays we don't use because we already have async await.
That will be our discussion in few of the next sections.
Let's say just resolve it, which we have seen that we resolve with a message.
For example, I give success message just like this.
Now, to deal with this promise, how do we actually write our how do we change the promise with the
then method?
So we write like this we are not.
Then this also has a callback function.
So I'll just write the message we want to display.
Let's say the message.
So when this result is called, it sends the data, this result data to this MSG variable which we can
display.
So I'll say console.log and I want to display the MSG.
Now when it comes to error handling, we write catch along with then remember we can have more downs
like this.
We will see that later on.
But right now, to deal with our handler, you can write a catch here, which again has a callback function.
And inside of this let's display console.log.
Edit That is also one more option with a promise and that is finally, finally does have a callback
function, but it doesn't have any parameter within that callback function.
Like in success.
We have the message, in the catch, we have the adder.
But then finally we don't have anything right.
It's just that when the promise is executed, when the entire job is done, whether it is resolved or
rejected at the end, if you still have some process to execute, you put it in the final section.
So let me also have a console.log here.
So I'll say console.log and the finishing process you can write here.
So I'll say finishing process, that's it.
Now let's try to execute this and see how does it behave.
I'll say note the callback dodges.
So when I say resolve it called back this line that is console.log, right?
Instead of this, if I have to rejected this in some case, let's say, and I display the message here
saying that this is the error right now, if I run, you see the error is displayed.
So this error is actually the catch section execution.
Let me just add one more string here, which shows that this is the error part.
I'll just join this and run it again.
So now you see this ad and it doesn't display the actual message.
It displays the object, in fact, and finally is executed.
So the finishing process is displayed.
But this process is actually not an asynchronous process.
Right.
So let's put a set timeout here.
I can say set timeout.
I'll put a callback function with set timeout and let's see whether it is going to be resolved or rejected.
But after 2000 milliseconds, let's resolve and we see success or maybe some message, let's say data.
Now, if we ran this after 2 seconds, you will get the message.
So this is a common syntax of writing a promise.
At the moment we have configured the object PR and are handling the promise.
It might also happen that you have a function which has an asynchronous process.
Then you can return a promise and the function which returns a promise is also tenable.
That means right now we have a return then with the PR object, which is actually of type promise.
But if we have a function then that also becomes tenable.
We already had the square function we defined with callback function.
Let's change the CSS you are that is custom squared function with this syntax.
So this callback function gets converted to promise.
This conversion is also called as promise ification or I am promising.
Fine are promising phi.
All these terms are related.
So I'm converting the code of callback to promise the CSS.
Q are we had let me write the same way as a c askew.
R This takes for example, one parameter.
It's an arrow function, so I'll put an equal to an arrow.
Right.
And this has the parameter E in it.
Now, this which I have here, I'm going to cut this and paste it inside this function.
Now what I want is instead of PR, I should write C as you are and I should pass the value here.
Right?
So it should return me the result I can say msg, but let me say it is a more meaningful variable.
So that's the result here.
That's it.
Is it going to work or not?
Let me run this and show you why it's not working.
The addresses that cannot read property.
Then it means that still this function is not tenable because by default a function cannot be tenable.
When will it be tenable?
When can I add the then or catch?
When this function returns a promise.
So now the only thing I have to write is it returns a promise.
I'll say return buyer.
That's it.
Now let's try to run and see whether we get the desired output or not.
2 seconds waiting and then the data is displayed.
Right.
Unfortunately, I'm not giving the square, so let me do that.
I'll say eight into a that's the data we want, not the data stream.
Let's run this again.
2 seconds waiting and we have four.
That is the squared off the value we passed using the promise.
We can still improvise this code.
I do not need this PR object.
Right.
I can simply say let's not write this.
I'll say return.
It is one and the same thing and I don't need this return statement.
This is a more appropriate and lesser line code that you write written new promise and that does the
job.
Let me run it again to show that there is no change.
To make sure that it's a new code.
I'll just change this value.
And run it again.
So we have nine here, which shows that it is perfectly configured in the same way we can change the
code which we had which was fetching the data and displaying the data.
Right.
We converted that code into callback function earlier.
Let's promise ify that fetch data and display data code with promise.
So this is the code of callback, right?
Let's run this once to make sure that everything is fine.
So the program starts, the data is retrieved, and then the program ends because we had that callback
function.
Now, if we have to convert the score into promise, then the fetch data should return a promise.
So certainly you can write an object.
PR is equal to new promise and at the end you return this PR.
But we have already seen that instead of writing this way, I can directly see that you written a new
promise, right?
So this I'm sure you are clear with.
So I will have a callback function in it.
And this said time out code.
I'm simply shifting to this return statement.
All right, so now this function is returning a promise which we need to configure it then.
So now the fetch data will be called.
And then we attach that, then matter with it, which will have a callback function.
Let me also say resolve here.
And reject.
And when it is supposed to return something, I'll say resolve the data.
So the data which we are passing is, let's say, retrieved here on this place.
Now, this console log data I can put here because I want to display we don't need this function anymore.
But there's see this line which we wrote earlier, which is executed at the end.
Certainly I can see not catch, which will have again a similar syntax.
And this will also have finally.
And inside, finally, you can put this line, the last line.
So this is something a kind of process which is executed at the end of the job.
Whether it is successful or failure doesn't matter.
Here in the catch we'll have the added object.
So you display the add it.
So I'll say console.log and add it.
So now this function fetch data returns a promise, right?
And it results with this data.
And that data should be retrieved here and it should be displayed in case if there is any rejection,
which is always conditional.
Right now we are using result itself, but there might be a condition and on that you reject.
So that will be retrieved here the rejected data and finally something which is getting executed.
So now we have configured this.
Now let's run.
Now we have the same code written like this where we have the fetch data and which is returning the
promise and it handles the asynchronous process.
Let's go back to square function now in the callback section.
We did see that if you have multiple processes, let's say this was the callback function where we were
trying to find square of two and then whatever result we receive it is further squared and that can
go on and on.
So this is a multiple process we are doing right.
One process, one asynchronous process does return a result.
Then you go on the next asynchronous process.
It again returns a result and you keep on adding this.
The similar thing if you have to implement with promise.
Then one way is that after the result is returned here you write this entire process like this finally
and everything.
For example, finally, not necessarily you write every time, but catch is something which you always
right.
Now, if you have more lines like this, let's say the result which we retrieved here that we are passing,
right?
So now after every 2 seconds, we should get the next square, right?
So I can remove finally so that it doesn't confuse you a lot.
I am being I am removing finally for the inner function, at least not for the outer promise.
So now we have the first execution that will be executed and will return the result, and that will
be retrieved here in this case.
Let's run and see what is the output.
The first value passed.
It says that success and for the second promise in promise is executed.
And then it says 16.
But this is very clumsy.
This code is not something which you would be comfortable with.
So promise gives you a choice where you can change.
So changing the promise is very important.
How will you do that?
Let's try that.
I'm rewriting the entire thing, so I'll say.
See, Scott, the two is supposed to be passed.
Then you do have that function.
And here you will get the result.
Right.
So inside this you will write console.log result.
Now I want to change this further.
So I'll say out then.
Right.
The next result which is passed that I want inside this so I might say result one.
So I'll get a result one here, let's say console.log and I want to display the result one.
Here.
And at the end I have the sketch which will just display the error if that is any.
So I'll say edit and console.log.
Edit That's it.
This is a proper way of changing the promise.
So the earlier syntax was very complicated.
But this one is not.
But this will not work as well.
Why?
Let me discuss that.
But first we execute it and see what is the output.
So after 2 seconds, it did execute under Don Ford.
But for the next promise, it did not give us the result.
The reason is that we need to return the promise from this then as well, because you want to move ahead,
you want to have a next goal of see as you are with this result.
So what will you do?
You will simply call this return the c QR.
And here you are going to pass the result which you have retrieved in this first, then.
So this will return the promise.
And further it is going to change with this.
Then let's run this and see how does it execute.
We have four.
And 16.
So now you can properly chain this if you, let's say, want to add one more then then certainly you
will say return the you are in chart.
Every then should return a promise when you are changing the promise with multiple processes to make
sure that you always write a return with her promise.
So this is all about the basics of promise.
And we have seen that.
How do we return a promise?
How do we convert the callback function to promise?
And we have also seen that how do we chain the promise in a proper way?
Let's discuss related questions of this topic.
The first question is How will you configure a process which should be executed at the end of promise
after a result or reject?
So here you can use the finally.
Putting the code in the final section will make sure that whether the promise is result or reject,
but it does execute at the end.
Second question, what is gaining the promise?
Explain the syntax.
This we have already seen that when it comes to chaining, we do not keep on writing multiple promises
in a nested pattern, but instead we make sure that we return a promise inside every then so the next
gen will be executed properly.
The third question is what will be the output of the given goal?
Now, discord does have a promise and there are two result statements.
It is also changed with two dens here.
So if you are thinking that first result will be for this and the second result will be for the set
timeout.
That won't happen.
Result or reject is like a written statement.
So once it is executed, even if you have more lines after result or reject, those are never executed.
So this will only return the result with data over and that does the job.
So it will wait for 2 seconds, but it will not resolve with this.
It will just resolve with the over message.
Let's save this and try executing it to get the clear idea.
You see.
Two times over is displayed.
2 seconds.
It waited and it came out.
The reason is that once you have the result statement executed, it doesn't proceed further with any
more results or rejects unless they are put in different if conditions.
The fourth question is what is the status of promise by default?
We already saw earlier that when you have the object created with promise, it has the pending status.
That is the binding state by default.
Fifth question is what will be the status of promise when results are rejected?
In case of resolved and dejected, it will have a status fulfilled or rejected.